Oh.
2 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
When you receive your electricity bill, you, you will charge be charged how much you will be, you are spending on energy in kilowatt hours. So usually the power transmitted to your home, most of the power generated.
3 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
At the power stations, they are made from generators because to carry the energy generators. In generators, they have coils. When we see coils coils inductor or.
4 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Inductor. So when we have calls too many calls, so it is an inductor. So that think about it, inductor, is it.
5 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Current is leading or lagging. Current is lagging. So if a circuit is made of many coins, obviously the current will be you have answered.
6 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
You have answered my question your colleague has, answered just now, which is the right one. So, how can I exit.
7 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Let me check that maybe ok. So, so this means you have your colleague has answered if my circuit is made of many calls, obviously the current.
8 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Will be, so let's go to to the next question so, question is this.
9 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The current will be, which one is it?
10 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Okay, ok.
11 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
I think you you got the right all you got the right answers. So we have 59 students in this room. It's very, very, very good. So this means it is lagging, but you are paying your electricity bills.
12 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Charge you based on your usage, but they really actually don't care much about the power factor. Actually, you are not getting all the money that you are paying for.
13 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Cause power is VI cost data, but however, the power stations will try to improve the power factor. Because if you, the, the, the power station has a lot of coils.
14 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
A lot of coils and so forth. So this will be the current is lagging voltage by 90 degrees. So what is the best way is they will introduce purposely capacitor because if this is -90 minus under.
15 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And.
16 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The capacitor is plus 90 so at the end becomes zero, ok. But, ideal to get the power factor of one, the main costs of zero, that's the best. So but if they try, you can get the power factor of one, the substations or the.
17 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The company try to make it a power factor of one. So, but if you are, manufacturing or you produce, you are you are industrial, it is crucial.
18 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
That you have power factor very high, close to one because if you have less, too much less than like the lagging than one, your machine will not work properly, you will not get the best output. So companies.
19 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
I will try at the end at at their end to put some compensator to make Although the and already did try to compensate at the stations, so the companies, the factories.
20 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The factories and when it reached them, they will have another compensator to make it better, closer and closer to one. They cannot afford peace profit, right? If it's less.
21 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
A few percent, they cannot get the best output. So if you want to get a power factor of close to one, you can also install this compensator at your home so you can get a power factor.
22 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Although it's already tried at their best at the generator, but you can also put at your home, ok, to, to further make the power factor very, very close to one, ok? And.
23 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And maybe in the next time you go to the customer center, you can ask a technical question. What, what is the power factor that you give to my home so that they know that you are asking a technical. So the let them answer, let them.
24 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So we want to know what is the power factor that they try their best that they delivered to your home. And, when the power factor is stated, it is important to state that.
25 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
It is leading or lagging. So, in the final exam or in the quiz tree, in case this is coming so, our factor is cost it up.
26 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So if you found the value, e.g., ten degrees, you must say ten degrees lagging or ten degrees leading. So if you just say ten degrees.
27 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
You will get a partial marks. The final marks should be written for the full correct marks. It's 10 % lagging or 10 % leading. And that's why I always recommend because the lack or the lead.
28 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Is based on the current. So you do not need to save a 10 % current leading, current leading 10 % current lagging. It is understood.
29 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
When you say 10 % lagging, this means the current is the benchmark top 10 % current is lagging the voltage. It's just like a short form of writing, ok? You do not need to write current leading voltage 1010.
30 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Ten degrees current lagging voltage. You just, you just write 10 % lagging, so people will understand 10 % lagging means, Sorry ten degrees lagging is the current is lagging the voltage by ten degrees.
31 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Okay, so this is also in the industry, so when you work in your boss, the boss say, ok, how much the boss say ok 1010 degrees lagging. So it's an industrial terminology, so it means current lagging the voltage.
32 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
When he says ten degrees leading, it means current is leading the voltage. So, so for now onwards because.
33 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Previously it is a full full resistive sucker, a full resistive sucker or full inductive sucker or full.
34 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
A Full capacity circuit, so from now onwards, because there is maybe there is a resistor and capacitor or resistor and inductor. So that's because here we have 90 degrees space.
35 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Shift 90 degrees space but when we have some combination sort of we have to consider that this is a hybrid or a combination of current resistor and inductors resistor and so forth.
36 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So in this example, find the average power discipated in a network whose input current and voltage are the following. So I think you agree with me that since.
37 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
You can see here omega T plus 40 for the current omega T plus 40 for the voltage, you know that this is purely resistors resistive circuit. So.
38 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
You can convert to RMS, but you can also work in the peak. So remember for the peak VM, I M.
39 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Over two. This is peak. Everything here, is peaked, ok? Peak. So you don't you use peak directly, Pick the equation.
40 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The equation for the pits because of course you can convert back and then use convert to RMS and use the RMS. So I just go back to here to differentiate between the formula for the.
41 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Peak and the RMS, so here this is the peak voltage and peak current for the and that there is a divided by two, but if you want to use RMS.
42 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
There is NO divided by two. So when we have the question as follows, so these are the peak, so, NO need, if you want to convert back and use the.
43 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
RMS, equation for the power, you can do that, but you can directly also use the, the equation for the power in peaks in peak voltage and peak current, so that is divided by two here.
44 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Just be where in in your in your operations. So VM is ten, IP is five divided by two is 25 points. And that's why I said you can use.
45 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
RMS or you can convert to RMS and use that. At the end, you can, you will get the same you can you will get the same power, 25 W. So it depends on your convenience, ok? But be careful, be consistent.
46 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
You see speak, you speak. If you want to convert, you can do that and use the V square RMS over V V RMS square over or we use I square.
47 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
IRMS square multiply by R, so now it's part A is V equals to 100 sign omega T plus 40 degrees.
48 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
I equals to 20 signed omegative plus 70 degrees and so we will ask to find how much is the average power delivered to the networks. So here is peak voltage, 100.
49 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Pick current 20 and we can see, 40 and 70, ok? So the difference is, 30 degrees. So if we don't want to convert to RMS, we use.
50 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The power for the, for the, we use the power equation using the peak peak voltage and peak current. So we know that the peak voltage is 100. Peak current is 20.
51 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And cost data, cost of the power factor cost data is 30 degrees, so you can get 806 66 W 866 W.
52 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Similarly, if we have the the 2nd question, B equals to 01:50 signed omega T -70, I equals to three signed omega T -50. Let's say you want to use.
53 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Peak, peak voltage and pick current equations, you can do that. You can still do that. So the peak voltage is 01:50 volts. The peak current is three MPS divided by two.
54 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And. So the 1st one is -70, comes from here -70. The 2nd one is -50. So -70 and -50. So we.
55 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Say -70 minus -50, this is equals to -20. It can be returned as 20.
56 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
1st modulus modulus. So, the cost of 20 is written here, so the power is 211 .43 W.
57 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
211 .43 W. So, so the term leading or lagging is often written in conjunction with the power factor.
58 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Sometimes it's PF, or sometimes F subscript B this is a powered factor.
59 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Power factor. So if the current need the voltage, so it is leading. So power factor, e.g. 03:30 thirty degrees leading.
60 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
We know that this word means not three degrees, so e.g., in this previous question zero point the power factor is.
61 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The power factor in this previous example, the power factor is cost 20, the cost 20 is 0.9.
62 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
397, but we must decide whether to we must write additional 0.9397 leading or 0.9397 lagging.
63 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And this leading or lagging, if it is, this means current lead, if you write leading means current leading the voltage. If you write 0.9397 lagging, it means the current is lagging the voltage.
64 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So we looked at our equation and the current is this one. The voltage is this one. So when we write our final power factor 0.937, we must.
65 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Right leading 0.9397 leading or 0.9397 lagging, and the way we find it, we see the voltage and the current.
66 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Which one is leading which or which one is lagging which? Which one is leading or which one is lagging at this one? The current is leading, ok? So this means you write 0.9397.
67 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The leading. Then it's you get the full marks. If you write 0.937, only without leading or legging, you get a partial almost full but not full marks. So.
68 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
In overall, because fully fully inducted 90 degrees, the cost of 90, fully capacitor.
69 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
It's also 90 course of 90, the power factor power factor, and.
70 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Fully resistered power factor is one because cost of zero is a unity, unity power factor. But if you have combination.
71 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Maybe not fully inductor but some capacitor or some capacitor as inductor plus some resistor, so overall you will not, you will get some value but not totally 90 degrees, ok?
72 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
But overall, if, if it is more the the capacity, the capacity is stronger, the capacity of circuits have a leading power factor. If overall, after all the combination.
73 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The inductive is stronger than the at the rest, so this is called inductive circuits. They will have a lagging power factor. So let leading means current leads.
74 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Voltage. Lagging means current lacks, lakhs voltage. So can I ask you, so if we are the current.
75 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
It's this one and the lot view is the voltage is this one. Okay, we can now determine the power factor. Power factor is.
76 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Cost of data right Cost of data, the difference between the current and the voltage, so we can, 60 and how do we know? Cost 60 is ok, you get the answer, but how do we know the answer is leading but not lagging?
77 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
How do we, as I mentioned, if you just write zero 0.5, you get not the full marks, you must write 0.5 leading or 0.5 lagging. But how do we know that.
78 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
This is leading Compared the angles yes. Yes. So this one, the current is this one, right? And the voltage is this one. So obviously the current is leading the voltage.
79 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
It by because plus 40 and voltage is -20, so that's why current is leading the voltage, so leading, leading. And for the 2nd case.
80 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
We have the value of the voltage, so this I make it larger, this is plus 80 and the value of the current plus 30, so the theta, how many degrees?
81 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
50, so the power factor is cost of 50, use your calculator, you will get the results, but you need to add here leading or lagging and lagging, right?
82 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Thank you. Because the current is lagging the voltage. The current is lagging the voltage. So you need to write 0.64. Don't stop at that. You must write 0.64 lagging.
83 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And for part C, yeah, it's obviously five MPS and 20 v and there is NO data and this mass.
84 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
B, the power factor is, one way to find a, another way to find a power factor is power divided by V effective, high effective. So if this is 100 W.
85 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And B effective is 20 v and I effective five years, so the power factor is unity. Perfector is one and there's NO need to write eating or lagging because this is purely resistive.
86 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
All factor is just one, NO need to write leading or lagging. So, have you learned complex numbers in math 141?
87 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And management for two, ok. So, because, so far we we have to write, we have to draw not to be making mistake.
88 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And when we draw, oh, we see which curve is crossing the X exit 1st on the left, right? So here the the green curve is like leading the rate curve. But there is another way to do it.
89 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
No need to draw, NO need to every time draw and this technique is called complex numbers technique. So let's revise complex numbers, A plus JB. So in math 141 and math 142.
90 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Because it's pure mathematics, we don't use J as the complex number, we use I but in engineering, we use J because I is currently is confusing. So we use A plus JB. A.
91 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Means real part plus JB is the complex part, ok? And this point is A plus JB or this point can be measured in terms of polar format.
92 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Where we can use the magnitude square root of A square plus B square, and we find the angle engine minus one B over a. So that's two ways of.
93 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Two format of writing the coordinates for this point. That that's the revision for complex numbers. And here it's again on the left hand side is plus JY.
94 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
On the right hand side, three plus J four and to to use the polar form to get the magnitude this theorem and square root of three square plus four square.
95 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And the data here is tangent minus one, four over three year So, if we have this part.
96 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
From here to here, this means three, plus J four but 180 degrees is the negative, so we have minus three.
97 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Minus four G After you rotate for 180 degrees, you will get the negative sign of the polar form. So the magnitude is five, but.
98 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
For this case, and this case, the magnitude is still five, because from here to here is five but data plus hundred and 80 degrees.
99 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So this to to indicate that this is the negative site, ok? So here you can see that the magnitude is still seven, but, you rotate the angle.
100 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
You can rotate it, you can move from here or you can move, if you move the opposite direction, you just write minus 01:20 or you can write seven plus 02:40 both are correct.
101 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
It's 02:40 means you are moving counter clockwise from this 1240 or if you are moving clockwise from from here is -120 degrees. Can we just revise the concept of complex conjugate?
102 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
If we have.
103 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
At this .2 plus J three, the complex is the mirror image. Complex contribute is the mirror image, two minus J32 minus J three. These are some of the important revision.
104 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
From the, this one is rectangular to polar, so that the angle is data and this is polar to rectangular. If we want from that.
105 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
To data to, to, to express it as x plus jyy. This is the formula to convert from polar to rectangular. Convert the following from rectangular to polar.
106 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So rectangular is three plus J four. So the polar is a magnitude is five and the data is tangent minus one, four over three is four over three.
107 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And it's 53.3 degrees or five angle 53.3. So can I ask you by by using your calculator, can you convert?
108 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
This is polar, right? This is paular. Can you convert in, in terms of X plus J Y? So X is R R costitau.
109 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And why is R signed data and this is part this is, so there's one more next question.
110 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Next question for your lecture quizzes, so I hope you will be able to answer that.
111 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Yeah, I hope you'll be able to answer that and, 61 students are at in this room, 61 students.
112 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Okay, and the answer is 7.07 plus J 7.0 sevens, ok? So act R Costita and R signed Tita.
113 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Okay, so yes, all from so so and some revision of the mathematics of the complex J square.
114 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So in mathematics math one for one, I square is equals to minus one. So another property is one over J is equals to minus J So this is this is just a revision.
115 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And for addition, for addition you can, the real part, this is the imaginary, the real parts.
116 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
This is the imaginary. If you want to add two complex numbers, the real part will be added to the real part and the imaginary parts will be added to the imaginary parts, ok?
117 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So that is a revision for complex numbers. And for the polar form, if we have two polars, when we want to multiply the two polar numbers.
118 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
C one multiplied by C two, the magnitude will be multiplied and the angle will be added. If you want to divide, the magnitude will be divided.
119 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And the angle will be substructed. So from now onwards, are you, it's good practice for the past one or two weeks withdraw.
120 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Withdraw two, two curves and we compare who, which curve intersect the X axis 1st. Oh, we say this one intersects so this must be the black must be leading the green.
121 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
But from now onwards, so it's a tedious process, you must draw and then you can.
122 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
See, to compare but from now onwards we are going to use phaser and phaser diagrams, which is from the complex numbers, ok? So if we have two curves.
123 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Two curves and you want to see, how, what is the face between them. We do not need to draw them. Again, we are just going to use complex numbers. We are just going to use complex numbers.
124 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Let's see how can we do that, ok? So phases and phaser diagrams. Phases are characterized by the magnitude and the face angle. It is common to represent the magnitude of a phaser as an RMS quantity.
125 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So it's very important that when we, just now I show you I equals who I am previously not this one, signed omega T.
126 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
When we write in terms of sign omegatie, this one is always a peak, peak amplitudes. But when we want to write in terms of the phases.
127 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
This is RMS. The the standard way of writing it is to write the, this part in the fasal as a RMS. So if you forgot to convert to RMS.
128 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
You will get not a full mark but almost you will be deducted some marks because it's like a standard way of writing. Standard way of writing, if you write some magnitudes in fasal.
129 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
This is RMS quantity, RMS quantity not peak, not peak. Of course, in between interim you can do your calculation in peak or whatever.
130 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
That is convenient, but don't forget to convert to RMS, ok? Don't forget to write in a standard form. If this is the form of, faster fasal form, the, the.
131 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The magnitude here is RMS, not peak, but if you, the final answer in term of sinoidols sign omegative or something, this one is in terms of peak, not RMS. So that is just like conventional or standard way of writing a grid by the.
132 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Engineers and scientists a long time ago, so we will apply to it in our situations, ok? So again, now everything is still valid. Voltage divider, everything is still valid.
133 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The only issue is it's sinocidal. So VA is the voltage across element A The element here we we do not need to know. Maybe it's a inductor, maybe it's combination, but we are given 50 signed.
134 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Omega T plus 30 degrees and 30 signed omega T plus 60 degrees. So every time you see omega, it's Omega two by F equals two by F So we can find.
135 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
The frequency as from here 60 hz 60 hz 60 hz. Indirectly we know we can get the frequency. So let's do, if we want to find, we do not know.
136 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
We do not know what is E in, and you know this is a voltage in series two element in series, VA E in, voltage divider theory. It must be VA plus VB.
137 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So although it's cymosoidle, same concept, owns law voltage divider will be used, ok, will be used, ok? And yeah, please. Here, here is picked.
138 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Cause it's written in terms of conventional waste signed omegative, so this is 50 50 v peak. But when we, let's say we that's very good question, so let's, let's go to the.
139 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Let's go to the our equations. So, because complex numbers now instead of right drawing, which is tedious, we want to work with Faisal.
140 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And therefore, this is phases is in terms of magnitude and be in terms of angle. So your your colleague, your your friend brought up a very important issue to have a good best practice.
141 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
To write because now we are writing in facil form, so 50 votes speak, we must write it as 35 point 35 because we are MS.
142 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Is we pick, we pick over square of two. So the V pick is 50 over square of two.
143 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So this is a best practice, best way. So if you I see this, this means you understood is four marks full marks because even the steps you are following the best practice. And that plus 30 degrees is just an angle of 30 degrees.
144 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Similarly VP is 30 peak. It's equal equivalent to 21 point 21 RMS volts and this is plus 60 degrees, so it's the angle is 60 degrees. So since.
145 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
E inch is V A plus VB, but, A polar.
146 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
One plus B polar two is very awkward, right? It's very awkward to add, it's not as straightforward to add, so we have the best way is to.
147 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
To convert to, A plus JB, and then here is maybe C plus JD, and then A plus C for the real part.
148 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And JB plus JD for the for the for the imaging part and then convert back to some this one is RMS.
149 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And the face. But here we have converted 35.5 v angled 30 degrees into A plus JB. So I don't show, we don't show the steps, but I think you know.
150 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
What's the steps and we have converted 21 point 21 v angle 60 into A plus JB, ok? A plus JB who has You have approved the status, you don't use because in the exam you must use approved.
151 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So, there is a technique because that's why in the non approved calculators there is just a button to convert immediately. 35 point 35 angle 30.
152 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Click that button, you will get 30.61 plus J 17.68. That's the non approved, but in the approved calculator, there is a way to do it. So I will, so in the exam, you will save a lot of time.
153 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Okay, you will save a lot of time. Do you know the way yet? Yeah, is that the button available in in the approved calculators? I will teach in a later time because it is called.
154 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
There is a button recall the ten. So instead of converting from the 1st principle, you can, press something and I will I have put it in Moodle.
155 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
I have put it in Moodle in the advice on how to use this one. Is it approved operator? Oh, very good.
156 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
You have PO L is very good. Yes, that's your some records yes.
157 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
But I will show you another, this one, let me show you, in this announcement, I I have posted one video.
158 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
A youtube video where, rectangular and polar from conversion FX 9913 plus. So if you want, I can show it the video.
159 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Oh, for this where you can practice together to save you a lot of time for the.
160 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So.
161 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Okay, so when you're in the time before calculator.
162 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Uses the outputs of these functions will be X Y or R. Just a little bit of theory, this is what the calculator is doing and it's making this, finding R.
163 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And it's getting feature against simple triangle relationships, which is the song calculator is doing but it's more convenient.
164 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
It's just more efficient. So how do you view this function caller, very simplements.
165 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Just need to put it in here and.
166 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
It's 3.45. So that's three whys four. So do you have four in your calculator? You happened. And then we want four.
167 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So four, press equals and that cases R five.
168 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Again, which is what we expect. Very simple with the here form to rectangular.
169 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So, theory is just X equals data and then minus. You have rec.
170 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
You don't have that? Some of you don't have? So but those of you who have, are you using approved calculator? Proof. You have a sticker? Some of you don't have.
171 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Don't have Paul and rec. So, I will discuss, so since you have Paul and rec, so it's already.
172 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
You can use it for your benefits, for your benefits. So here we we this is poll convert to rack, when we.
173 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
When we have rack or rectangle, we can add the real parts together and we will add the, the imaginary parts or J parts together. When we obtained this.
174 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
A plus JB because the final answer is, the final answer is then let me see the question again.
175 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So the final, find the input voltage of the circuit. So if the VA is in this form, will be in this form, so we are expected to find input voltage, some amplitude.
176 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Some, some omega T plus plus or minus something. So after we perform all our, we convert back into this form. So when we.
177 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
We have reached here, so this is not the full original form yet, so we convert back to here, the polar form. So can I ask you just to remind us this is RMS or pig?
178 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
RMS, yeah? So this RMS. But can I ask you just to remind us again, this form should be in peak or RMS? Peak. How to convert form?
179 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
RMS too pick, might multiply vascular too. Okay, very good. And so now I hope you can answer this next question.
180 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And this next question is, to convert that into the original form. So can I ask you Ian is how many.
181 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
What is the best, the right format for E input? What is the right format for E input? Plus, right? Yes yes plus.
182 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
It's always plus. Yeah, it's always plus, the shorter one, the the smaller angle. It can be hundred 80 degrees and so forth, but and here because if we draw at the diagram, it's 41.
183 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
1.22 is here?
184 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
And J is 31 is here so, this is the angle, so it's plus plus data, is plus data.
185 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
Yeah. So with that I think you got the answer and so you have to convert to RMS, then only you write at the end.
186 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (1778477568)
So, thank you very much and see you next week. Thank you.